(dramatic music)
- One of the things I was thinking of is,
we've talked about what we're looking forward to in 2018.
One of the things we haven't talked about is,
what would you like to see in 2018?
What are some missing gaps that maybe could be addressed?
- What I would like to see.
- Yeah.
- Right off the bat, more processing.
I feel like clouds and rainmaker,
the only two that dive into the territories
of modulated granular processing.
I would like to see more of that.
I would like to see a higher fidelity version of clouds.
You know what I mean?
- Yeah.
- With all the modes upfront, no more hidden treasures.
You know what I mean?
- Yeah.
- And digging and memorizing key combos and shit like that.
Well, that's not true, I guess.
The morphogen kind of goes into that territory, I guess.
Also, but that I really didn't jive with.
You know, all the key combos and shit.
I just want something,
I don't care if it's a whole row in size.
You know what I mean?
Like we need a really great granular processor
that can handle multi-layered effects
with everything upfront and easily accessed and CVable.
And in the year 2018, I feel like it's kind of crazy
that that doesn't exist so far.
- Yeah.
- You know, the rainmakers, as close as it can come to that,
but again, you're only getting one layer of effects with that.
You know what I mean?
It'd be cool if you could also layer in like a reverb
on top of that or something.
You know what I mean?
- No, but I would like to see clouds mark two, you know.
- Yeah, I would love to see that.
- Such a good module.
- What about you, Nick?
What would you like to see?
- Well, working digitact.
(laughing)
A digitact that doesn't frustrate the shit out of me.
So close, but so far away.
So, I don't know.
I'm betting they're gonna introduce some new products
soon in that.
I'm just worried that they're gonna keep making new things
and not finishing the things that they've made.
- I decided for 2018 I'm completely done with Electron.
- Yeah, I'm not gonna give them another shot.
- I've owned every box now, some of them multiple times,
and I always get frustrated with the limitations, you know.
And maybe just my own stupidity.
I don't know, but either way, I just don't jive with them.
- Yeah.
- Even if there's parts of them that I really like,
there's always like parts that I don't really like about them.
And then like, you know what, I give up.
I currently don't own any and I don't plan on getting any.
- Well, except for this year, the heat,
if you can find one for.
- Oh, yeah, I'm sorry.
I do have the drive, yes, thank you.
Which is about as basic as can be, you know.
And even that, I get frustrated with its limitations.
Like I don't know, but again, that's just an effect.
You know what I mean?
It's their OS that I have the most issues with.
There really isn't one on the drive,
so no problem there.
It's just switching between different
distortion circuits.
So I'll let them slide with that.
I'll keep that for now.
But other than that, yeah, I think I'm spent
on trying to jive with the electron.
- Yeah, I know the feeling, even after the,
I'll keep the rhythm, I've put a lot of time
into it, I really like it.
But if it dies, I don't know if I would even get
another one I'd probably just say.
That's time to move on and do shit with all their stuff.
'Cause other stuff is out there that can do it.
Put a little frustrated with their approach for some things.
- Do you ever consider going back to MPC?
- No.
- With all the new shit they got coming up?
- I don't know, I've heard so many things
about that MPC live, not working very well,
and I feel like it'd be the same thing,
but worse, and that Kai's support is just like, ugh.
- I just know that you used to be like
inseparable from the MC man.
- Oh yeah, at least fucking love this.
- You're one logo.
- Yeah, MPC.
- It's a good statement.
- Yeah.
- No, it's a good question, 'cause maybe,
I don't know, maybe the right MPC live
that does work, maybe that would be awesome.
- Yeah.
- I don't know.
- I feel like they're the biggest competition right now,
as far as like hardware boxes go,
to things like the Octa and the Riddem and shit like that.
- Yep, agreed.
- How about you Dave?
- I said it earlier, I mean, the big thing I'm looking forward to
is the Crystallizer.
- And you're talking about the future sound system.
- The future sound system, Crystallizer, modules.
I want that sonic terror in a module or a set of modules,
and that's a big one.
Another one I've been meaning to go back and revisit
is the Kilpatrick Carbon.
- Mm, yeah.
- I really like Sequencer.
- I thought that was great,
it had everything that I was looking for,
sort of was interested and then slept on it,
and short of the pyramid being amazing.
That's something I can really see myself diving into.
What I wanna see is basically that type of control,
that type of workstation that integrates everything
and can be that single point for everything that I wanna run.
I like the idea of just having that sitting there
and I can plug in a sound module,
I can plug in my modular, I can plug this in
and have this one control thing that I invest time learning,
and then I can use it for everything I wanna do.
- Something that seamlessly bridges the gap
between your modular and your other hardware.
- Exactly, and right now--
- Even software, I guess.
- Right now I don't have that,
and I've always been looking for that central thing that--
- Something that isn't gonna cost you five grand,
or be overly complicated,
'cause I feel like those things do exist.
Again, the MPC is not the live, but the other one,
they want that to be that.
- Oh, the big one, yeah.
- The big one with the screen is shit.
- The fuck is that expensive?
- I can't, yeah.
- But that is meant to be that in some way,
but it's like way, way overkill, yeah.
- That is not something that's in the realm of possibility
for me to get.
- What's something that's at the carbon price point?
- Yeah, exactly. - Like 500 bucks.
- I don't know, maybe it's unfair to put that in the,
I hope that comes out in 2018, 'cause it may exist already,
but if something was announced at NAMM,
that was taking the pyramid or the carbon,
or these other things, and nailing it even further,
I probably lose my mind.
- There's that new Skorp 1.2 Skorp mix,
the pyramid, they have that hair mod,
which is the Euro Rack version,
like an eight channel Euro Rack version
of the pyramid kind of.
- Really?
- Yeah, but CV Gate only just teased it.
- Totally missed that.
- A few days ago, it just was--
- Oh, this is like a NAMHype belt.
- Yeah, it's kinda. - It's kinda.
But it looks very similar, like you can get the effects,
the similar MIDI effects, but over CV and Gate.
It seems pretty cool.
- I would definitely like to see something more
of a looper recorder module, this lesson.
- Yeah, mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
- The something they can multi-track.
I think the bitbox is getting there.
- They've made improvements, it's more.
- Yeah, I know they've made improvements,
so I'm tempted to get one to see if I can do
what I want with it, but at the same time,
it seems like those are features
that they're introducing after the fact,
and it wasn't really designed with that in mind,
so it's gonna be a bunch of bouncing around
to get it to do that, and I don't know how well
the slicing and that actually functions anyways.
- It was pretty good when I had one.
They were getting much closer with it.
I think it was pretty decent.
- 'Cause I would love to just be able to record
like a 16 measure loop, and then be able to trigger
the slices manually, and also bounce between
what sections of that recording, the shit that I have
to use my DAW for now, as I record chunks
of the modular, record it, trigger it, move about it,
navigate your recording, basically that one,
a Rex player module, which I think we've discussed.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I guess the other thing, I'm going back to 2018,
but I guess this is an initiative anymore,
was the Intel Gel plug was unavailable for a long time.
I kept looking, this is something I want,
and it's available again.
- Yes, it is.
- I got the 2HB logic, and I'm always like,
"Oh man, what if I had a NAND?"
Or even just like a NOR, like having all--
- What if you had all of them in the ability
to CV between them?
(laughing)
It's pretty epic.
- That module's just-- - That module's
just fucking astounding.
- It is.
Like I said, I don't know what the hell I'm doing
with it for the most part, but I know I'm getting
good results out of it, so.
The omni-mod.
- Oh yeah.
- People are getting them.
- It's out in the world.
- Yeah, people are getting themselves.
- Yeah, it's man.
- After three years of waiting.
- Three years of insanity.
- Is 2018 the year of the omni-mod?
- I don't know.
I don't think anyone got one before the end of the year.
- So it is 2018.
- So yeah, I think we can count that as a 2018 first release.
- And none of them are DOA.
I mean--
- So far?
- Yeah.
- There's no manual.
People don't know what the hell they're doing with it.
- No, they don't.
It's the whole like--
- People are trying to figure out how to use this thing,
but--
- So it was like us with the prototype at NOPCON,
just going like, look at that.
That shapes where we are.
- Well, it looks like it doesn't even function like it did
with the prototypes that we messed with.
- Yeah, I saw that, yeah.
- Like at all.
It looks completely different now.
I mean, the screen looks the same and all that,
but like the functionality,
like there's different modes and shit.
'Cause like Ignatius, he keeps posting videos
on Instagram and things like that.
And a few other people posted videos as well.
They're just like, well, I figured out how to do this.
Finally, after like 24 hours of messing with this,
this is pretty cool.
I mean, what they're posting sounds awesome.
- It looks great.
- But like Ignatius, he was like,
he was even saying like, I can't get this to reset.
He's like, I wish I could.
This mode 'em in, I got this sounding great,
but I can't figure out how to make it go back to like the one.
And it's just like,
looping in a weird way.
And shit.
(laughing)
So it's like, it's like adorable to watch people,
you know, like reverse engineer how to use this thing
and come up with some really interesting sounding stuff.
Like I want one, but at the same time,
I know it's just gonna frustrate the hell out of me.
Without being able to know how to navigate it.
But I'm tempted.
- Yeah, there were a few at Detroit Modular,
like I posted there, like someone was like,
you can get it right now if you want.
- Yeah, as soon as you posted that, I was like,
ah, should I, or should I just wait for someone
to be like, fuck this and post it up used?
'Cause I'm sure that's gonna happen within the week.
- So is it like the flight of the navigator
when the kid gets in the spaceship
and doesn't really know how to work it?
- Oh, firm enough.
(laughing)
- I'm just still amazed it's out there.
- Yeah, it's just the fact that it's out
is amazing enough from whether or not anyone can use it,
you know, whatever, just the fact that it's out,
it made it, it's a real thing now.
- The funny part was at the end
when it was gonna be held up by some boxes.
They're like, no wait, we gotta wait
for the official boxes to ship
and people are just like, dude, fuck you, I will kill you.
Just send me the fucking mob.
- Throw it in some bubble wrap.
(laughing)
- Yeah, mail that shit out.
The Verigate 8 apparently can be used to save presets with it.
You don't need the storage strip.
You do need the storage strip if you want CV
to recall the presets, but yeah, apparently the Verigate 8
can be used as storage with it on the same bus.
- So how do you recall, you can recall with the Verigate 8?
- Yes, exactly. - Yes, even with the store.
You can recall, you just can't like use CV
to bounce between presets like you can with the storage strip,
which would be cool and all but.
So I guess in 2018, we're all still looking for
an ommemod that's not an ommemod.
(laughing)
Someone needs to make a successor.
- There were people at one point trying to say,
oh, could you just put this, like make a program
of the--
- Oh and see?
- Oh and see ornament and crime.
- Yeah. - They could do all this
and they were like, not with the like, no,
like no, no, and no.
(laughing)
Not the same thing.
- Yeah, I have a new module from WMD,
the MSCL compressor.
- Oh! - Oh!
- I didn't see that.
- It's teeny tiny.
This little guy, pretty damn awesome.
And it's stereo so I can route, you know,
whatever through it, it's pretty awesome.
And it can do side chain, it can do limiting.
It has a plus 30 gain on the out end.
Like it's, yeah, it's brutal and it sounds great.
I'm really stoked with this so much though
that I wanna get a second one.
I wanna daisy chain them and I wanna get stupid with that.
(laughing)
I'm a big fan of using compressors as distortion too,
which when you do that you lose all of its like
compression effects, you know what I mean?
You're just kind of like slamming it at that point.
It was like a super fast attack and release,
you know, you get that like weird fuzz almost.
So I wanna be able to do that and compress it on top of it
so that I can boost the outbound to the, you know,
like the plus 30 that I can get on that shit.
- It's reasonable.
- And then slam it on top of that, you know what I mean?
Just 'cause I'm stupid like that.
That's the type of shit that I have fun with.
But I've always had to do it software, which is shitty
and finally I can do it with in hardware and slam
some of my rhythmic noise patches.
- Is that new?
I've not heard of this.
- It's pretty much new, yeah.
- Okay.
- Pretty new.
It came out right around the same time as like I think
they announced the performance mixer or something like that.
It was so kind of fell under the hoopla
surrounding the performance mixer, so.
- Those are still sweet performance mixer.
- I would still like one.
Yeah, I just wish it had more stereo.
- Yeah.
- That's the only thing that makes me hesitate.
- Two or something like that.
- I think it's two and a stereo send return.
- 2018 things.
- Yeah, 2018.
- Looking forward to the pyramid.
Very excited to get my grubby fucking mitts
on another MIDI sequence here.
- Is there anything else that you covet or is it basically
that's it?
- Yeah.
- Might get one of those coma strums, the power,
and shits because my one case can't even plug
in my piston Honda right now because when I plug that in
it like kills that monorocket power supply.
- Damn shit.
- Not 'cause it's fucked up, it's 'cause I'm exceeding
some voltage 'cause there's the rain maker in there now,
the piston Honda and a bunch of other digital shit.
- I can't believe that I haven't drained the power
on my live case.
I have so much digital shit now.
- That's pretty good.
- Big digital shit like.
- Yeah, they're good ones.
Those dope for one.
- It's a dope for one?
- Yeah.
- Yeah, I think that one in particular, that case,
I think that's a Mark II power supply,
and I think the one on the right is the Mark III.
- That's incredible.
With the amount of draw that must have right now.
- Yeah, that's why I've never understood what people
like complained about the dope for power supplies.
Like 'cause I'm throwing about as much as you fucking can
at that thing right now in that case.
Got the rain maker, the 352, the DDSP, the Formus STS,
three Pico DSPs, almost everything in there
except for the filters are digital modules.
You know what I mean?
- And it's filled.
So what are people's complaints about it?
- People have just bitched about them being dirty,
not enough juice, you know what I mean?
On and on.
I've heard many complaints about them over the years.
I've never had any problems with dope for power supplies,
but I have with others.
- Oh yeah, I've had Tiptop ones crap out.
- I've had Tiptop problems.
I've had Pittsburgh modular problems
with their little rigs.
- Yeah.
- I don't know, I have zero complaints with dope for us
while I still have the cases.
The Rugged As Hell, they're great for performance.
And I've never been able to max out power supply.
So I have no complaints with the mantises so far either.
- So, but that is a Tiptop power on the mantises.
- It is, but it seems improved over the Tiptop stuff
that I've used in the past.
Happy ending kits and things like that.
- Well, those were the Zeus powers, right?
- Right.
- I've given up on those.
It's a cool idea.
Oh, they're garbage.
(buzzer)
- I know why it's so funny.
- It's so, weee.
It's such a weeny sound.
- Weeny over.
(laughing)
- Dude, that's a disservice.
'Cause it's an obost.
It's a majestic instrument.
- No, they're making it not.
(laughing)
- Oh no.
You have not given the obost respect to deserves.
(buzzer)
- Brass.
- Yeah, that sounds nice.
- That sounds awesome.
- That's the first thing I knew was just a round in oscillator.
(buzzer)
- Oh, that's nice.
- How many oscillators is it?
- Two.
It's a two.
So it's different from the JU06,
and that has got two,
no pulse width.
(buzzer)
- Oh, that's weird.
- You can just pulse width.
This one doesn't.
But I found a bunch of people say
that they're like,
this one and the most over the Jupiter EV.
- Yeah, I really wanted the,
the O6.
'Cause I miss friend Juno.
I kind of want them all those.
Yeah.
I still want the SH.
- I still want the SH02.
I think I've got nothing, son.
- I think that's the, I think the what?
- Let's do the electronic one.
- Oh.
- It's the most expensive,
but after having this one,
I've only had it for like a day or two.
So, but I want that O2, I think eventually.
- Yeah, really, that one's like kind of,
- Let's only talk about it.
- Not on my radar at all.
Yeah, I remember it's talking about it, but like.
- It's a super, it's a sleeper.
(buzzer)
- I listened to the demos,
it sounded good, but also it sounded very moody,
which the demos suck.
(buzzer)
- So I guess the differences between this
and the real one, this has sin wave,
better range on the LFOs and a few other things.
- You've had or have the real one of those, don't you?
- No, I have the Jupiter 6.
- Oh yeah.
- And I was--
- Oh yeah, you had the Jupiter, I had the Juno.
- Yeah.
- And what's this supposed to emulate?
- The JX3P.
- I don't know what the fuck that is.
- That's the one that had the separate programmer,
the little like silver, black box with the silver controls.
- I don't know.
- I put it on it.
'Cause otherwise it was just like a preset,
one slider and like buttons type thing.
And they made it so all the controls
from the programmer on here.
I really like it.
- We should probably tell our listeners what you're doing.
- This is the Roland JX03, which is one of the boutiques,
which is the little small key ones.
This is the knob one.
- I dig it, I think it sounds really good.
(buzzer)
- I've never had this synth, so it's more like,
I can get sounds from this that I can't get
from the blowfeld or the virus, like quick like analog,
poly and mono patches.
But even as a mono, if it was just one voice,
I think it would be worth it still.
- Kind of blows my mind that the O1
has some poly stuff built into it.
And along with that unison by like,
I really want that, but at the same time,
I feel like that's not what you do with a--
- No, it's a good one.
- Yeah, I'm like, it's kind of weird, but--
- But it sounds great though.
- Yeah, this is modeled from the same,
this both had the Roland IR 3109 chip,
which the Jupiter, the 101, and this all have that
filter chip used in different ways.
- Yeah, the filter, at least on the demos
that I've listened to for the old one,
was the only thing that sounded a little off to me.
- Mm, off how?
- What were you hearing?
- It didn't sound exactly like a one on one.
- Oh, gotcha, okay.
- You know what I mean?
I didn't expect it to sound exactly like one.
I was just listening, I was like,
"No, it sounds good, it sounds like a one on one,
"but it's something a little off with the filter."
- Right.
- So it wasn't quite there.
(upbeat music)
- I assume we've long abandoned the oboe preset.
- Yeah. (laughs)
- I think we're somewhere farther.
- It's pretty simple.
- You know, it's not a very complicated synth.
It has one envelope that you can shift the,
inverse the polarity on the filter and the amount,
and then there's that one LFO.
You get more LFO waveforms than on the original one.
- How many did you get?
- You get random and you get SNH and noise.
So there's just that one,
but it's got increased range apparently.
- So one of the things we were talking about,
of course, our recording was all of these parameters
are mapable, the CC.
- Yeah, which was a later update after like a year
of people kind of bitching, it seemed--
- 'Cause that was why wouldn't you have a map of the,
you know?
- I looked at the map that was on the website
and it was three parameters.
Like I would love to take, if I could make this happen
like this, the blow failed and the micromodule
and like a sequencer, that'd be awesome.
And you could fit that in like a bag or two.
(upbeat music)
- So you still have an opt-of disc?
- Yeah.
- I sold mine when I got the fuzz factory for you.
- Right.
- Which I no longer have.
- Do you have nothing of the sort now?
- No, I have a bunch of other weird distortions.
I have mostly germanium.
- Yeah, that star, I can't pronounce the company.
- Strocco roll or--
- That's the module that we have that you build.
- Yes, yes.
- And that's the one that has the two germanium chips.
- 12 squam.
- Yes, that's it.
- But you have that awesome, that's the one I want.
- Yeah, it's a three-channel, so it's like three
distortions and one.
- Yeah, pretty much.
- There's a crazy sale for that kit.
- Yeah, for the DIY kit, yeah.
I wish I would have gotten a DIY kit
'cause that module cost me like three times
as much as the kit.
- Oh shit.
- Oh seriously.
- I bought it, yeah.
Now you can get the kit for like a buck 50 years ago.
- When it was on sale, it was, I think it was
around 100 or even less.
And I don't have room for it and I already have the--
- That's like one channel.
- It is one-to-one.
- Yeah, I love it.
I think it's great.
- You like that.
- Oh god, I love it.
I've got to build mine.
That's like next on the list or second one.
- Now that I have it, it's in almost everything I do.
Even if I don't crank it to 11,
just adds a little bit of teeth to the end.
- A lot of it.
- Yeah dude, germanium just sounds,
you can add a little flavor to anything.
It just sounds fucking great, especially kicharums.
It'll beef it up, give it a little bit of distortion
without sucking out the base.
- Yeah, I do that with the Polaris a lot.
Like Polaris, oh yeah.
- Oh yeah.
- Just to like touch things up.
- It's like, oh man, it always has that little magic in it.
When I hadn't turned my module on in like two months
'cause I was working on other stuff.
And I turned it on and did a patch with 352 Polaris
and the voltage block and the varigate 4 Plus.
And it was like, fuck, if I only had these,
I would be like cool.
You could make like so many sounds
'cause like the 352 into the Polaris,
that's like a magical, like, I don't know,
I love the 352.
The Polaris kind of just adds some grit
to the weight of that oscillator kind of in my mind.
- You can do some goofy shit with it too, man.
- Yeah.
- You put it in notch mode and then you feed back
one of the outs into the, you know, the cutoff
and you start going crazy with it.
- So this is basically like 2017 wrap up or 2016 Plus.
- Let's get it Polaris.
- I think it's what we said last year.
(laughing)
- I think it is.
You know, I was trying to think of what modules
came out in 2017 that really blew my mind.
- Well, the formats.
- What's that?
- Sampler.
- It was gonna be one of them and the 352,
which I think we've already rubbed off quite a bit.
(laughing)
It seemed like 2017 there wasn't as much that came out
as in 2016 and stuff that did come out
was mostly like different takes
on the same shit that's already out there.
- Yeah.
- You know what I mean?
The only things that were really innovative
was the 352, which I think just blows away
any other like digital oscillator right now.
You know what I mean?
- Definitely.
- It was set the bar pretty high with that.
- Very good four plus for me.
That was one of those.
- Oh yeah, that was squeezed out right at the end of the year.
- Yeah, which I think it's awesome.
It's a, it works more solidly than the very eight plus
granted they have different features.
Like you can't do the real time record,
which I kind of miss a little bit
'cause that was just nice to tap in gates
and stuff like that.
And you can't mute anything, which isn't too bad
'cause if you have it in two by two split
and maybe just mute it where you're sending it to
or something, you know, it's not.
Like in eight channels, yeah, it would be super annoying
if you couldn't mute everything it wants,
but it was a sacrifice that I can understand at least
and it works perfectly.
The CV bus stuff doesn't really work, but I don't use it.
- So what does the CV bus, what's it supposed to do?
- Sending the clock and the presets
to the other module, the voltage block.
- And so it doesn't work at all or is it flaky?
- The clocking wouldn't sink for me.
And when I would just patch in the clock
and the reset, just like before with the varigate eight,
it works fine if you just patch it manually.
But after the bus, it wasn't even,
they were resetting at different times when I tried it.
I don't know if there was some noise on there.
I don't know, but it didn't really work.
- Is that a cable between the two or are they using
the bus of the-- - The straight power bus.
- The bus, yeah, no cables required.
- Right, it does, it keeps the preset between the two.
That syncs up correctly.
- But not the clocking doesn't work for shit.
It seems like they almost learned from their mistake
with the varigate eight.
They don't want to make something
where you can just update a teensy.
'Cause even on the four plus, there's no teensy to update.
I think they've skipped that.
- Oh.
- I'm an integrated it or put it all in one board or something.
- Voltage blocks is the same way.
There's no port on that one if I recall.
- So how do you update it?
- There's a JTAG on both of them, but it's not USB.
The JTAG programming's like--
- Right.
- I have the whole tool chain set up to do that
and all that shit, so they make it so it's not.
Like they probably won't update that.
- I mean, I'd still really like to see
an update to the voltage block
that allows you to see where you're clock dividing
in shift mode.
You know what I mean?
- You never thought about that.
- Yeah, there's still no indication of that.
Only on global--
- That's a good point.
- Yeah, I actually talked to Ben about it.
Like when I first noticed that, I was like,
is this supposed to be like,
'cause people brought it up on muffs too.
Or like, am I doing something wrong?
I can't tell where I'm clock dividing.
And he said like, the feature to do it per channel
and not just at the global level
was like a last minute addition.
And I guess it wasn't like fully thought through?
I don't know.
That's something I would really, really like to see.
- 'Cause that works really well.
- 'Cause you're shooting the dark.
- Yeah.
- It works perfectly.
- Like all that stuff seems to be just great.
Whereas before some of it on the eight seemed like
a little cagey, like the sliders would cause issues
if you use them while you were editing on this one.
- Right.
- It's fine.
- Now can you link two of those
and basically create a better, very good made post?
- It's my main, I would love if they could add that.
But there's no like a end of sequence gate
even that you could send out to like start something else.
- Really?
That seems like a feature that would be really useful to have.
- Yeah.
And again, it's a kind of a, it made me realize
like I missed the varigate eight,
I sold it, got the four plus and I was like,
oh yeah, I always want one of these with a modular.
But like, why didn't you just make like an eight plus plus
or something?
Like it has like this DSP chip or whatever
that clearly works a little better.
(screaming)
- Nick, you got the pyramid.
- Yeah, it's on the way.
It's right now shipped from France.
It's somewhere between France and here.
I'm pretty excited.
I hope it pans out.
- Now have you read about people having problems with it?
'Cause everything I've read has been somewhat glowing so far.
- Yeah, mostly glowing.
There are some software issues, but they've already said,
yeah, version three is coming out at the end of January.
They're like done with major features,
which is like great, 'cause I want them to be kind of done
with adding major things.
Just make it perfectly solid, you know?
'Cause right now I'm like,
a little frustrated with all the MIDI sequences I have
'cause all of them are broken in some way.
- Right. - Slightly.
So I was looking at the pyramid.
One of the things that was interesting was
that they have MIDI effects.
- Yeah.
- Which is something I've talked about in the past
with the RM1X.
- Yeah, a lot of the same like quantize,
core generation stuff, which may be a little different,
but quantize, scaling, that looks really cool.
- Even like the little delay.
- Yeah, MIDI delay, which you know is super useful.
You would think like, why would you fucking do that?
But then you use it and you're like, no, that's awesome.
- Exactly. - Like how they do that.
- One of the complaints is that you can't print the effects
in MIDI, it's like, you can't record those
as a MIDI file right now under the pyramid.
It's like, oh, I'm gonna have this effect loaded
as part of a track and save it and I'll be able to use this.
So people wanna be able to render the stuff,
which is common, like MIDI box does the same thing.
Like a lot of synthesizers have that.
'Cause that's kind of difficult, you know, to re-render.
It's maybe not completely difficult,
but the ability to re-render what you're doing
in a way that records it.
Like there's gotta be a whole flow for that,
which would be hard to replicate.
One of the coolest features about it that really attracts me
is that you can record a song just by muting things
and unmuting things and it'll track those changes
and be like, oh, I've made this sequence for you
just out of like muting and unmuting things,
which for me, that's how my brain works
when I make music kind of.
So if I can get closer to an arrangement
by trapping that stuff that I do live,
that's how it goes. - Yeah, that's pretty awesome.
- Yeah, that would be super attractive.
- So you don't have to make a whole new pattern.
- Yeah, eight that is muted. - Yeah, that's muted.
- Five to eight, three or something.
- Now when you play live, you're pretty much patterned
a pattern, right? - Yeah.
- Have you thought about how you're gonna integrate
this new idea with-- - Good question.
Yeah, if I could have bigger chains that I can rely on,
that would be awesome.
So if that can make it be like that,
where I can just mute and unmute from a big sequence,
that would help me out.
I ended up keeping my fluxes.
I'm gonna hang on to it for a little.
- Okay.
- Modulation, I figured about modulation per step.
- Yeah. - That was like, all right,
I'm gonna hold on for a little
'cause I always need modulators, I don't have.
- See, that's the thing I was really stoked on,
do you look once or two 'cause it can do it?
But again, with two voltage blocks,
I don't know if I need it.
- You've got the Octo controller too.
- Yeah, I was telling Dave about that last night.
Like I was saying that like in the clip
that I posted on Instagram recently,
like most of the sequencing was coming from quantized loops
that I made on there.
- Nice.
- Along with voltage block being triggered
by rhythmic gates in logic.
- That's awesome.
- And it's fun and it's cool way to do stuff
and like at the moment, I wanna try to squeeze
as much as I can out of that.
As much as I would like an elo quencer,
I'm like, if I get one, I'm just gonna go right back
into the standard way of sequencing shit.
Whereas like now my hands kind of forced
to get a little weird with this shit and I like it.
So I'm gonna keep rolling with this
at least until I finish probably a little EP.
- So for our listeners, can you explain
what it is you told me tonight?
- Well yeah, the Octo controller, you know what I mean?
You can loop sequences of gates or,
well randomly generated gates or randomly generated CV.
And you can change clock rates of that,
loop it, quantize it, do whatever you wanna do with it.
And I was having a lot of fun with that.
Like just dialing in chunks of like generated loops
and you know, locking that loop in place
for you know, measures at a time.
And kind of playing with it live so to speak.
And then I have a shit ton of generative
and rhythm based gate sequencers now.
I have the Tuesday, I have the grids,
I have pretty much everything by noise engineering.
And I was creating probabilistic sequences
and logic sequences through the plug with that
and also triggering my two voltage blocks
from different rhythms.
You know, to generate things and like make this
generate stuff, use the two HP ARP,
the tonets by noise engineering.
And like the two HP ARP that is triggered by gates.
So you know what I mean?
Like I was doing like slow rhythms to it
to make it, you know, step, things like that.
I was just doing weird shit like that
instead of like doing conventional like step note
gate sequencing, you know,
I currently don't have any sequencers that really do that.
And I'm gonna intentionally keep it that way for the moment.
- Now what do you send in the two HP ARP to?
Like when you send it gates, what do you end up like
triggering or sending voltages to from it?
- The patch that I was doing,
I was sending it to the MANUS, it's here at Toss.
- Oh, okay.
- Scaling the voltage coming out of it
through a attenuator and routing it to the MANUS.
I don't have the beat step per hour anymore.
I don't have the fluxes.
I don't have any normal step sequencers
trying to just force myself to get a little creative
and utilize like generative patching.
Organized chaos.
- It's a beautiful thing.
- I like it.
- It's another big thing with the pyramid.
Another like pyramid thing I didn't mention
is it does CV to MIDI, which I've never tried before.
And I'm really curious about 'cause with the Fergate 4 Plus
there are only like 16 presets.
So if I could record some of that stuff
and apparently you just set like a root note
and then send the voltage is in
and it kind of does the rest.
- Figures it out.
- Yeah, we'll see.
- Yeah, recently really upped my noise engineering rig.
- Yeah, you did.
- It went from a couple BIA's to three and two curses
and one man is and--
- Wait, hold on.
Is it gonna be a smaller list
if you just say what you don't have?
- Probably.
Yeah, I think one of the only things I don't have right now
is like the mimetic sequence or whatever,
which is the CV recorder,
or looper I was talking to you about.
But I pretty much have at least one of everything else.
Except for the confundo funkitus.
I've been having problems finding that.
I do want it.
It's just either out of stock or everywhere
or I see people selling it used
and by the time I get ahold of them it's already gone.
I've been trying for weeks to get ahold of one.
- And which one is that?
What is it to?
- That is the rhythmic probability crossfader.
You can send two different rhythms in
and then you can crossfade them between a manually
or control that with CV and it'll, you know,
based on probability percentages will fade
between the two rhythms.
- Now you still have a probably model, right?
- Yes.
- So I mean, could you do something similar to that with
the probably like a crossfade model?
- I could.
I have in the past.
That's one reason why I want this.
(laughing)
I was doing stuff like that in the past with, you know,
switching and probabilistic gates from the very gate,
triggering switches, you know what I mean?
To determine between two different rhythms
and things like that, but it'd just be nice to have this
in all in one package and also have the manual crossfader,
which I think would be a lot of fun.
- Yeah.
I mean, also if you're a completist,
you know, you're really close to giving.
- The whole collection.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, I don't have any other malts either.
Like I don't have the mullet and things like that.
I don't really have malts in my system.
I use stackables for everything.
Yeah, the noise engineering stuff has become my drum machine.
You know what I mean?
So I just haven't been happy with or satisfied
with any drum machines that I've been using lately
to do what I want to do.
You know, the rhythm didn't quite cut it for me.
It was close.
It was the closest that any machine has got.
You know what I mean?
It was the rhythm.
Kept the mutant beating nine in there
for a little bit of analog kicks.
- Yeah.
- You know what I mean?
I got the MFB hats in there.
- Yeah, we're talking about the MFB hats before we started
recording.
What is it about them that's cut your attention
versus other ones you've tried?
- It just sounds good.
I don't know.
The hats that I used the most up until this point
were the mutant hi-hats.
They were good, but at the same time,
not too versatile and they were out of tune with each other.
So you couldn't have them both being triggered
at the same time it would sound off.
You know what I mean?
I don't know if that was just a problem with my module
or if it's just a problem with that module in general.
I don't know, I know it got on my nerves.
- So we've all this stuff hooked up.
I can give us a little taste.
- There it is.
(tapping)
Let's get some cymbals in there.
Got some grids, griddin' some hats.
So what controls do you get?
You get a tune it sounds like.
And then you take it, you get tune,
decay for everything and a cymbal tone also.
It seems as if it just kind of like filters
and noises on it.
- Mm-hmm.
- Oh, wow, that was nice.
- Man, it's a hats.
- It's a hats model.
- It sounds good.
- Diggin' it.
- Yeah.
- I do hear that phasing.
- What?
- It's that.
- Oh, it's the power supply.
It's not even hooked up via audio.
- Wow.
- I think it was that preset.
- Everything's music.
- Apologies listeners,
if you've been hearing amazing sound.
- Crisis averted.
- You have not been going insane.
There was a slight phasing sound.
It was caused by the JX-O3.
- It's caused by engineers trying to emulate
fuck ups from the past.
(laughing)
- Successfully, I would argue.
- Oh yeah.
- That was mad night.
- Mm-hmm.
(laughing)
(drumming)
- That's all.
- Yeah, it's centered.
I think that's way too high.
- That's it.
(drumming)
- I mean, it's that way, like,
on a shape, like, digital, easy,
(drumming)
- I fucking said everything was awesome.
- See, it's definitely not like
look how it turns.
(drumming)
- Yeah, very different.
- It's not really changing.
(drumming)
- Yeah.
Holy shit.
- That is the curses.
- Just that is a demo.
It sold me more than some of the initial demos
I saw about.
(laughing)
- Yeah, dude.
I mean, I wasn't paying much attention
for a long time either.
And then, like, soon as I got one,
just like on a gamble,
'cause Steve and noise engineering,
like actually, like,
hyped it up to me.
Like, I was telling them, you know,
I had three B.I.A.s and this and that,
and he was like, "You need a curses."
I was like, "I don't know, man."
I was like, "The demos I've kind of,
"you know, heard and watched about it
"and really sold me entirely."
He's like, "You need a curses."
I was like, "All right."
And so I got one,
I wrote back to him, I was like,
"Yeah, thanks for the recommendation."
I was like, "This thing's pretty damn awesome."
He was like, "Yeah, he's like,
"it's one of our sleeper modules."
You know, I guess a lot of people
haven't realized its potential yet.
- Hopefully you've changed the modus with this.
- Yeah, well, he changed my mind, you know what I mean?
'Cause he posted,
he's been posting some pretty awesome demos
on YouTube.
Not demos, but just like jams.
- Yeah, just kidding.
- And I hit him up, I was like,
what was all going on in that patch?
I was like, 'cause that sounded great.
And he had like three curses and three BIAs
and things like that.
And I was like, "Well, I'm well versed with the BIA."
I was like, you know,
some of those sounds I definitely didn't recognize.
I was like, "So I'll give the curses a shot."
And yeah, it's pretty awesome.
- How do you feel about the Manus?
- No, I haven't been there for awhile.
- The Manus, I'm a little mixed on.
I like the Manus, it has pretty aggressive sound,
which I dig, but like I remember I wrote
to you guys when I first got it and said,
it's kind of like compared to all the other
noise engineering oscillators I have,
I feel like it's the mall goth edition.
You know what I mean?
It's just trying too hard to be edgy and aggressive.
- It just walked out of hot topic.
- It's just hanging out at hot topic.
- All black next to the silver panels.
- Yeah.
- Hey, I'm dark.
- Whoa, what's going on?
Oh, there's that weird thing again.
You sound like you're through an old radio.
- Is it better?
(record scratching)
- What is wrong with this?
- There it is.
- Oh yeah, all right.
- Good now.
- I mean, it was a cool effect.
- It was, sounded old timey Dave,
but yeah, I like it.
I just feel like, well, let me just say
that the one thing I really don't like is the
encoder pitch knob.
- What does that do?
- You spin it for all eternity to try and adjust your pitch.
- Did you realize that was like that?
- I hate that.
- Oh yeah.
- Can you send it to CV?
- Yes.
And that's what I've been doing to dial in.
I've just been using like a channel off the voltage block
to dial in where I want to say.
I hate endless encoders on any piece of gear
that I've ever used and want to like always.
I just, I don't know, that's just me.
I like figuring out sweet spots.
And you can't do that on endless encoder knobs.
You know what I mean?
Like you're just constantly oversteering
and then adjusting where you want it.
And it's just that encoder alone is kind of like
making me not want to touch it sometimes.
You know what I mean?
Like I'll hop on the curses or the BIA
and I can feel out exactly where I want that pitch to be.
Before I hit it with CV.
You know, I know I can dial in and I can tune it.
I know where exactly where it needs to be.
But with the endless encoder,
I'm just like constantly trying to feel that out.
- So short of the endless encoder problem,
are you getting sounds out of the madness that you like?
Or is it still like?
- I am.
- Do you still need to process it?
Do you still need to like sort of like
give it a little help?
- I'm definitely getting sounds out of it I like.
But I feel like between the three modes
there's not a huge amount of difference.
- I feel like you have to like strain to hear the differences.
They're more subtle.
- That's weird because the Lekel, yeah.
I mean, I'll have like something set up
with one of the modes.
I'll be like, this sounds really good.
And I will routinely just check to make sure
- Your modes, sure.
- The other modes just be like,
have I accidentally come across something amazing?
- Yeah.
- And it's not uncommon for me to just switch what mode I'm in
just because I've accidentally come across
like this amazing setting.
- But it was in a mode I wasn't even working in.
- Yeah.
- But they're tremendously different.
- Yeah, I wouldn't say you've,
there's less happy accidents that way with the manis.
Also the manis I feel really shines
with more of the low endish side of things.
It's definitely like a base synth.
- Which is the problem.
- You know what I mean?
- Yeah, so it's not a problem,
but it's also kind of limiting.
You know what I mean?
Like I feel like if there was a mode in there
that really shined on higher end,
you know what I mean?
- Yeah.
- Then it would be more worth it instead of like three modes
that are a little subtle between each other.
And you know, when you're only gonna be working
within a very specific range on it.
- Are you thinking of keeping it?
- Yeah, oh yeah.
- Okay.
- Absolutely.
I'm gonna keep it for what it does best
and that's basically synth sounds.
You know what I mean?
Will I be going to town modulating the shit out of it?
Like a BIA or bouncing between the modes?
Like on a cursus, probably not.
You know what I mean?
It's gonna be more of a set it and forget it type of
module I think, you know,
especially 'cause like again,
you can't find the hotspot you went on the pitch.
So you're gonna like dial that in
or tune it with CV and leave it there.
The sync, a tier, that also has the endless encoder.
And I don't mind it as much on there
because I usually use that as like an LFO
or a noise module, you know what I mean?
Things like that not like a direct lead.
It's more like a secondary oscillator or a modulator.
You know what I mean?
So I deal with it there.
Also the range on that thing is crazy.
Can you remember how far down it goes?
'Cause like 20 octaves or something.
Yes, ridiculous amount of octaves.
So, you know, an endless recoder
for something like that makes sense.
'Cause you got so much territory to cover.
On the manis, I don't think it makes sense.
And it just kind of makes it not jive
with the other noise engineering oscillators.
I can plug it in, we can have a listen.
(engine revving)
(drumming)
- Yeah, between the modes right now.
- Yeah.
- Now here is a different.
- Oh, weird.
(drumming)
- I just built this.
- Go here and open a deficit in the mic.
That's all you got here.
- It's got its own envelope, right?
Like the BIS.
- Yeah.
- Perfect budget.
Can you disable the envelope?
(drumming)
- I'm not being prepared.
- Look at it.
(drumming)
- So let me clarify.
You can't make it free running,
but you can open up the VCA.
If you said it,
(drumming)
like a decay with a black maverick.
And that's, you know, if you have the decay down.
(drumming)
- Yeah.
It sounds awesome.
It's just,
it's a little different from the other
who is engineering stuff.
You know, as far as like,
feeling out what you want
and balancing between the modes and things like that.
We got the Intel gel mix up.
- Did you actually get it?
- Not yet.
- That's on pre-order from a perfect circuit.
It was the two final things that I bought using the holiday
discount,
but they weren't released yet.
So I got them on pre-order.
Some people already have them,
people that have ordered directly through Intel gel.
So I guess distributors got them a little late.
- But we can review that next episode.
- Next episode.
Which will be the interview?
- Should we tell our listeners who we're talking about?
- Yeah.
We're gonna be doing a live interview
with Steve and Chris of Noise Engineer.
- Woo hoo.
- We all have multiples of that.
- Well, I just complained about
their rotary knob on Manis.
- Is that finally,
finally we have a Noise Engineer in complaints.
- Is that all we're gonna talk about?
Is the rotary knob?
- We'll just
- Shit talk them for an hour.
- Real them like a fucking like.
- Like what the fuck were you thinking?
- Call the episode the rotary mistake.
(laughing)
- So about your flaws.
Let's see if you can do that.
So now that your legacy will be endless rotary knob.
(laughing)
But yeah, much, much hyped about that.
'Cause they seem like some really cool individuals.
- Yeah.
(upbeat music)